[SDK-877] Adds documentation for Swift Package Manager (#1576)
Appboy/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/swift_package_manager.md

---
nav_title: Swift Package Manager
platform: iOS
page_order: 1
description: "This tutorial covers how to install the SDK using Swift Package Manager"
---

# Swift Package Manager Integration

## Requirements

Installing the iOS SDK via [Swift Package Manager][apple_initial_setup_1] automates the majority of the installation process for you. Before beginning this process please ensure that you are using Xcode 12 or greater.

> Note that tvOS and Push Stories support is not yet available via _Swift Package Manager_. 

> > Push Stories are available through a side-by-side integration with Cocoapods.

Reviewer: The formatting in the preview for some reason makes this on the same line as the one before

## Step 1: Adding the dependency to your project

Open your project and navigate to your project's settings. Select the tab named _Swift Packages_ and click on the add button (_+_) at the bottom left.

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 1][apple_initial_setup_2]

Enter the url of our iOS SDK repository (`https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk`) in the text field and click _Next_:

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 2][apple_initial_setup_3]

On the next screen, select the SDK version and click _Next_.

> Versions 3.29.0 and higher are compatible with _Swift Package Manager_.

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 3][apple_initial_setup_4]

Select the package that best fits your needs and click _Finish_:
- `AppboyKit`
  - Best suited if you don't need to use any of the UI components provided by Braze (e.g. Content Cards, In-App Messages, etc.).

> - `AppboyUI`

Reviewer: IMO I think we can put `AppboyUI` above `AppboyKit` since it is the default integration and more clients use it than just the Core

Reviewer 2: +1

  - Best suited if you plan to use UI components provided by Braze.
  - Includes `AppboyKit` automatically.
  

> > Make sure you select **either** `AppboyKit` **or** `AppboyUI`. Including both packages can lead to some undesired warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Make sure you select **either** `AppboyKit` **or** `AppboyUI`. Including both packages can lead to undesired behavior.
```

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 4][apple_initial_setup_5]

> ## Step 2: Additional setup

Reviewer 3: maybe "Configuring your project"

Navigate to your project build settings and add the `-ObjC` flag to the _Other Linker Flags_ setting.

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 5][apple_initial_setup_6]

Edit the scheme of the target including the Appboy package (_Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme_ menu item):
- Click the expand ▶︎ next to _Build_ and select _Post-actions_. Press _+_ and select _New Run Script Action_.
- In the dropdown next to _Provide build settings from_, select your app's target.
- Copy this script into the open field:
```sh
rm -rf "${TARGET_BUILD_DIR}/${PRODUCT_NAME}.app/Frameworks/libAppboyKitLibrary.a"
rm -rf "${TARGET_BUILD_DIR}/${PRODUCT_NAME}.app/Plugins/libAppboyKitLibrary.a"
```

![Swift Package Manager: Menu 7][apple_initial_setup_7]

> ## Step 3: Updating your App Delegate

Reviewer 3: Ideally the stuff from here to the end could be merged with other integration methods since afaik its not different for SPM. If that's high LOE we can address another time (but should file a ticket)

Author: https://jira.braze.com/browse/SDK-908

{% tabs %}
{% tab OBJECTIVE-C %}

Add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.m` file:

```objc
#import "AppboyKit.h"
```

Within your `AppDelegate.m` file, add the following snippet within your `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method:

```objc
[Appboy startWithApiKey:@"YOUR-APP-IDENTIFIER-API-KEY"
         inApplication:application
     withLaunchOptions:launchOptions];
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab swift %}

Add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.swift` file:

```swift
import AppboyKit
```

> For more information about using Objective-C code in Swift projects, please see the [Apple Developer Docs](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/swift/conceptual/buildingcocoaapps/MixandMatch.html).

Reviewer 2: I think this would fit better somewhere else

Author: https://jira.braze.com/browse/SDK-908

In `AppDelegate.swift`, add following snippet to your `application(application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [NSObject: AnyObject]?) -> Bool`:

```swift
Appboy.start(withApiKey: "YOUR-APP-IDENTIFIER-API-KEY", in:application, withLaunchOptions:launchOptions)
```

> __Note__: Braze's `sharedInstance` singleton will be nil before `startWithApiKey:` is called, as that is a prerequisite to using any Braze functionality.

Reviewer 3: nil -> `nil`

If given a pre-existing custom endpoint...
- Starting with Braze iOS SDK v3.0.2, you can set a custom endpoint using the `Info.plist` file. Add the Appboy dictionary to your `Info.plist` file. Inside the `Appboy` dictionary, add the `Endpoint` string subentry and set the value to your custom endpoint URL's authority (for example, `sdk.iad-01.braze.com`, not `https://sdk.iad-01.braze.com`).

Your Braze representative should have already advised you of the [correct endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/sdk_endpoints/).

### Runtime Endpoint Configuration

If given a pre-existing custom endpoint...
- Starting with Braze iOS SDK v3.17.0+, you can override set your endpoint via the `ABKEndpointKey` inside the `appboyOptions` parameter passed to `startWithApiKey:inApplication:withLaunchOptions:withAppboyOptions:`. Set the value to your custom endpoint URL's authority (for example, `sdk.iad-01.braze.com`, not `https://sdk.iad-01.braze.com`).

{% alert important %}
To find out your specific cluster, please ask your Customer Success Manager or reach out to our support team.
{% endalert %}

### Implementation Example

> See the {% if include.platform == 'iOS' %}
> [`AppDelegate.m`][apple_initial_setup_7] file{% else %}[`AppDelegate.m`][apple_initial_setup_8] file{% endif %} in the Stopwatch sample app.

Reviewer: Not sure if you need the branching here (I see the other docs have it but it might be outdated)

Maybe we can just have:
```suggestion
See the [`AppDelegate.m`][apple_initial_setup_8] file in the Stopwatch sample app.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: It would be great if there was some kind of "Finished! You should now be able to do X. To continue on with your integration, go to Y" - but I don't think we have that elsewhere. Might be a good thing to add eventually (not now unless LOE is low)
